Convert "Get started with PWAs" from tutorial to sample article (#3476)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/samples/temperature-converter.md

Author: delete unused pngs in the two articles

Author: in Demos repo, rename /pwa-getting-started/ to /temperature-converter/

https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/pwa-getting-started/ - dir ought to be renamed /temperature-converter/
todo: create a Demos repo PR to rename the dir (after I test the steps in /pwa/samples/temperature-converter/ which will re-clone the Demos repo).

Change to the `/pwa-getting-started/` directory of the cloned Demos repo, and start the `http-server` from there, as follows:

1. In PowerShell that's opened using **Run as Administrator**, change to the directory where you want to clone the Demos repo:

   ```console
   cd Demos
   cd pwa-getting-started
   ```

   You're now in a directory such as `C:\users\localAccount\GitHub\Demos\pwa-getting-started`.

1. In PowerShell, enter the following command:

   ```console
   npx http-server
   ```

1. If you get the message "File C:\Program Files\nodejs\npx.ps1 cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system", you can run a command such as:

   ```console
   Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope CurrentUser
   ```

  For details, see [about_Execution_Policies](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_execution_policies) in the PowerShell docs.

  Then again enter the command:

   ```console
   npx http-server
   ```

   Output is displayed, such as:

   ```console
   Starting up http-server, serving ./
   Available on:
     http://10.0.1.12:8080
     http://127.0.0.1:8080
   ```

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to: `http://localhost:8080`

> 

Author: png

1. In the **temperature** text box, type **22**.

   As you type, the displayed temperature is updated to **71.6 F**.

1. Click the **from** and **to** dropdown lists.

   Available units are:
   * **Celsius**
   * **Fahrenheit**
   * **Kelvin**

Continue with the next section.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Use DevTools to examine the service worker handling offline caching

The local app window for a Progressive Web App (PWA) is a browser-based window, so Microsoft Edge DevTools can be used to work with the PWA.

Confirm that the service worker (`sw.js`) is running after you open the PWA as a local app, as follows:

1. Right-click the app, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, in a separate window; undocked.  Other docking options are dimmed and not available.

1. In DevTools, select the **Application** (![Application icon](./temperature-converter-images/application-tool-icon.png)) tool.

1. In the tree on the left, select **Application** > **Service workers**.

   Information about the service worker is displayed.  The service worker's **Source** is `sw.js`, with **Status** of **activated and is running**:

>     ![The Application tool (in DevTools), showing the "Service workers" panel, with the `sw.js` worker running](./temperature-converter-images/devtools-service-workers.png)

Author: * blurry - make window narrow then redo
* also show undocked DevTools window

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/samples/temperature-converter?branch=pr-en-us-3476#use-devtools-to-examine-the-service-worker-handling-offline-caching

1. Change to the `/Demos/pwa-getting-started/` directory, by entering commands such as the following:

   ```console
   cd Demos
   cd pwa-getting-started
   ```

1. In the lower left corner of Visual Studio Code, look at the branch name.

   The **main** branch is indicated.

1. In VS Code's terminal, enter the following commands, to create a working branch of the repo and switch to it:

   ```console
   git branch test1
   git checkout test1
   ```

   Example output: `Switched to branch 'test1'`

   The lower left corner of Visual Studio Code now shows the branch name **test1** instead of **main**.

1. In Visual Studio Code, open `/Demos/pwa-getting-started/index.html`.

   Change the title element text from:
   `<title>Temperature converter</title>`
   to:
   `<title>My temperature converter</title>`

1. Save the file.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View the modified web app in the browser

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) (or an equivalent URL that was output in the terminal, from the `npx http-server` command).

> 1. Press **Shift+F5** (or **Ctrl+F5**) to hard-refresh the webpage.

Author: several spots:

Use whichever level of Refresh is required to refresh the PWA UI during development:
   * Refresh (**F5**).
   * Hard refresh (**Ctrl+F5**, or **Shift+F5**).
   * Empty cache and hard refresh (**F12** > right-click the **Refresh** button, and then select **Empty cache and hard reset** > **F12**).

---
title: Temperature converter sample
description: How to obtain, install, and run the Temperature converter Progressive Web App sample, and how the sample works.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: pwa
ms.date: 10/09/2025
---
# Temperature converter sample

> The Temperature converter sample is a Progressive Web App (PWA).

Author: The Temperature converter sample is a Progressive Web App (PWA) that demonstrates the basics of how to build a PWA.  You can modify this sample to start creating your own PWA.

   ![The installed sample Progressive Web App (PWA) if installed from localhost](./temperature-converter-images/installed-from-localhost.png)

   If you had installed the app from the `github.io` server, when you start the app, the right side of the title bar would instead display **microsoftedge.github.io** for a few seconds:

   ![The installed sample Progressive Web App (PWA) if installed from github.io server](./temperature-converter-images/installed-from-github-io.png)

1. In the **temperature** text box, type **22**.

   As you type, the displayed temperature is updated to **71.6 F**.

1. Click the **from** and **to** dropdown lists.

   Available units are:
   * **Celsius**
   * **Fahrenheit**
   * **Kelvin**

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 9 - Examine the service worker handling offline caching

The local app window for a Progressive Web App (PWA) is a browser-based window, so Microsoft Edge DevTools can be used to work with the PWA.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### When viewing the app as a web app in the browser

Author: curiously, the live article shows DevTools and sample in the browser, instead of local app window + undocked DevTools:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/#step-5---add-a-service-worker -- 

<img width="779" height="1059" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95fc5327-3c19-449e-8c67-9cd48ab485c6" />

@captainbrosset

   ![The test1 branch indicated in lower left of VS Code](./temperature-converter-images/test1-branch-in-vs-code.png)

   **Modify the files**

1. In Visual Studio Code, in the **Explorer** pane, open `/Demos/temperature-converter/index.html`.

1. In `index.html`, change the app's name in two lines from "Temperature converter" to "TC", as follows:

   Change from:

   ```html
    <title>Temperature converter</title>
    <meta name="application-name" content="Temperature converter">
   ```

   to:

   ```html
    <title>TC</title>
    <meta name="application-name" content="TC">
   ```

1. Save the file.

1. In Visual Studio Code, in the **Explorer** pane, open `/Demos/temperature-converter/manifest.json`.

1. In `manifest.json`, change the app's name in two lines from "Temperature converter" to "TC", as follows:
   
   Change from:

   ```json
   "name": "Temperature converter",
   "short_name": "Temperature converter",
   ```

   to:

   ```json
   "name": "TC",
   "short_name": "TC",
   ```

1. Save the file.

1. Enter the command: `git add .`

1. Enter the command: `git commit`

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Step 13: View the modified web app in the browser

Author: Outdated

1. In the **temperature** text box, type **22**.

   The displayed temperature changes to **71.6 F**.

1. Click the **from** dropdown list, and then click outside of it.

1. Click the **to** dropdown list, and then click outside of it.

   Available units are:
   * **Celsius**
   * **Fahrenheit**
   * **Kelvin**

1. Close the tab that contains the live [Temperature converter](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/temperature-converter/) sample web app.

In a later step, after the sample Progressive Web App (PWA) is installed as a local app, the app runs in its own window:

![The sample Progressive Web App (PWA), installed and running in its own window](./temperature-converter-images/sample-pwa-installed.png)

The sample is a Progressive Web App, rather than a regular web site.  Therefore, you can install the Progressive Web App (PWA) as an app on the device, and the app's window contains the same app UI as within the full web browser.

The installed app's window is a browser-based window, without most of the browser UI.  The installed app is integrated into the device's UI, such as the Windows taskbar and Windows Start menu.

> The installed app's window supports Microsoft Edge DevTools (in an undocked window).  The app continues to work when you use DevTools to turn off the internet connection.

Reviewer: I'd remove this line. I don't think it brings value at this stage of the article.

   The latest version number is displayed, such as v22.20.0.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 5: Fork and clone the "MicrosoftEdge / Demos" repo
<!-- compare: https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/devtools/sample-code/sample-code#clone-the-edge-demos-repo-to-your-drive -->

Next, you'll get a local copy of the sample code, by forking the Microsoft Edge / Demos repo.  Because you don't have permissions to directly push commits to the Demos open-source repo, you'll _fork_ the Demos repo to create your own copy of the repo, instead of _cloning_ the Demos repo.

You might be able to download the "main" branch of the Demos repo, and edit the files in the "main" branch, rather than forking and cloning the repo and then creating a working branch (test1) in which to edit the files.  This article shows the more complex but flexible way: forking the repo.

Fork the **MicrosoftEdge / Demos** repo, as follows:

1. Press **Windows+E**.

   File Explorer opens.

   **Check whether Demos repo has been cloned:**

1. Navigate to where you want the repo cloned to, such as:

   `C:\Users\localAccount\GitHub\`

> 1. See whether the `\Demos\` repo is listed, such as `C:\Users\localAccount\GitHub\Demos`.

Reviewer: If the person is going through these steps, there's very little chances that they'll already have cloned the Demos repo. I think this step can safely be skipped.

   * [Cloning your forked repository](https://docs.github.com/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo#cloning-your-forked-repository) in _Fork a repository_.
* [Cloning a repository](https://docs.github.com/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 6: Run the PWA as a web app on your local web server

Next, you'll run and test the sample Progressive Web App (PWA) on your local web server, in Microsoft Edge.  You'll use `http-server`, a local development web server that can be run in Node.js.

While developing or testing a web site or app, including a PWA, you can use a local web server.  However, when the app is ready for users, you deploy the app to the web by using a web hosting provider.  Like a regular web site or app, a PWA is distributed to users by using a web server.

Change to the `/temperature-converter/` directory of the cloned Demos repo, and start the `http-server` from there, as follows:

1. Open Visual Studio Code.

1. In the **View** menu, select **Terminal**.

> 1. Change to the `\Demos\temperature-converter\` directory, such as `C:\users\localAccount\GitHub\Demos\temperature-converter\`, by entering commands such as:

Author: 1. Open VS Code.
2. Open folder.
3. View > Terminal.

You can modify the sample as a starting point for your own Progressive Web App (PWA).  You'll change the name of the app from "Temperature converter" to "TC", in a working branch of the repo, and then install the modified app locally.

Create a working branch and switch to it, as follows:

1. Open Visual Studio.

   **Open the folder in VS Code**

1. Click the **File** menu, and then click **Open Folder**.

   The **Open Folder** dialog opens.

1. Navigate to the cloned Demos repo folder, such as `C:\Users\localAccount\GitHub\Demos\`, select the **Demos** folder, and then click the **Select Folder** button.

1. In the **Explorer** pane, open `\Demos\temperature-converter\index.html`.

   ![The main branch indicated in lower left of VS Code](./temperature-converter-images/main-branch-in-vs-code.png)

   In the lower left corner of Visual Studio Code, the **main** branch is indicated.

   **Create a working branch and switch to it**

1. In Visual Studio Code, in the **View** menu, select **Terminal**.

1. Press **Ctrl+C**.

   The localhost web server (http-server) stops.  The prompt shows the current path, such as: `PS C:\Users\localAccount\GitHub\Demos\temperature-converter>`

> 1. If you aren't in that directory already, change to the `/Demos/temperature-converter/` directory, by entering commands such as the following:

Reviewer: If they were just running the npx server, they will, for sure, already be in the right directory.

   The lower left corner of Visual Studio Code now shows the branch name **main** instead of **test1**.

1. Enter the following command:

   ```console
   npx http-server
   ```

   The local development web server starts.

   **View the web app**

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) (or an equivalent URL that was output in the terminal, from the `npx http-server` command).

1. Refresh the webpage.

   The tab text might not change to **Temperature converter**.

1. Hard-refresh the webpage (**Ctrl+F5** or **Shift+F5**).

   The tab text changes from **TC** back to **Temperature converter**:

   ![The app renamed to TC in the browser](./temperature-converter-images/tc-app-in-browser.png)

This is the end of the steps for the sample.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Speeding up the modify/re-install cycle

You might be able to skip some of the above steps each time you modify the app, depending on which files you modify:

* If you modify an HTML file, CSS file, or the main JavaScript file, you might be able to skip some of the above steps such as uninstalling the app.

> * If you modify the manifest file or the service worker file, you might not be able to skip some of the above steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can skip some of the above steps each time you modify the app, depending on which files you modify:

* If you modify an HTML file, CSS file, or the main JavaScript file, you can skip uninstalling and re-installating the app. Empyting the cache and refreshing the page is enough to reload HTML, CSS, and JavaScript changes.

* If you modify the manifest file, you must uninstall and re-install the app.
```

Create a working branch and switch to it, as follows:

1. In Visual Studio Code, in the **View** menu, select **Terminal**.

   The prompt shows the current path, such as: `PS C:\Users\localAccount\GitHub\Demos>`

1. Change to the `/Demos/pwa-getting-started/` directory, by entering commands such as the following:

   ```console
   cd Demos
   cd pwa-getting-started
   ```

1. In the lower left corner of Visual Studio Code, look at the branch name.

   The **main** branch is indicated.

1. In VS Code's terminal, enter the following commands, to create a working branch of the repo and switch to it:

   ```console
   git checkout -b test1
   ```

   Example output: `Switched to branch 'test1'`

   The lower left corner of Visual Studio Code now shows the branch name **test1** instead of **main**.

1. In Visual Studio Code, open `/Demos/pwa-getting-started/index.html`.

   Change the title element text from:
   `<title>Temperature converter</title>`
   to:
   `<title>My temperature converter</title>`

1. Save the file.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Step 12 - View the modified web app in the browser

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 12: View the modified web app in the browser
```
global in article
